= rubygems-test - commands and facilities for automated rubygems testing.

== For users

This installs three major features:

* a 'gem test' command.
* the ability to test your gems on installation, and uninstall them if they fail testing.
* A facility to upload your test results to rubygems.org (coming soon, see http://github.com/bluepojo/gem-testers)

=== .gemrc

You can insert several things in your .gemrc to make things simpler. These all
live in the 'test_options' subsection, e.g.:

  test_options:
    use_rake_test: false
    auto_test_on_install: true 
    test_on_install: true 
    install_development_dependencies: true
    upload_results: false
    force_install: false
    force_uninstall_on_failure: false

All options are *false* by default. For some of them, if the value is unknown
or +false+, you will be prompted when it is required for testing.

The options:

auto_test_on_install:: runs the unit tests when 'gem install' is invoked.
test_on_install:: offer to test on install in general. 'auto_test_on_install' overrides this.
install_development_dependencies:: automatically install the development dependencies when testing. This is recommended.
upload_results:: upload results to http://rubygems.org. Incomplete feature as of this writing.
force_install:: always install, even on test failures.
force_uninstall_on_failure:: force uninstall when tests fail.

== For gem developers

Want your gem to be testable? 

* Create (and add to your files section in your specification!) a +.gemtest+ empty file.
* Ensure 'rake test' works and doesn't wipe out filesystems, databases, etc. Move those tests to another task.
* Be sure to include your Rakefile in your gem, along with your tests.
* Be sure to note any development dependencies that will be required for executing your rakefile and your tests in your gemspec. They will be installed as a part of the testing process.  

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Erik Hollensbe and Josiah Kiehl. See LICENSE for details.
